# Glossary

This page describes the terms used within the context of Holos.

## Platform

In Holos, a Platform is a comprehensive environment configured using the
Kubernetes resource model. It extends beyond traditional Kubernetes
functionality by integrating cloud resources through Crossplane, allowing for a
unified management approach across both Kubernetes and cloud infrastructure. A
Platform typically consists of one Management Cluster, which handles control and
secret management, and one or more Workload Clusters, where application
workloads are deployed and run. This architecture enables a consistent and
scalable approach to managing diverse resources and services within the
cloud-native ecosystem.

## Management Cluster

In the context of Holos, a Management Cluster is a special Kubernetes cluster
that hosts Kubernetes controllers.  For example, cert-manager, Cluster api, and
Crossplane.  A management cluster manages a single platform.  The primary
function of this cluster is to securely store and manage secrets, ensuring the
secure handling of sensitive information such as credentials, API keys, and
other confidential data. The Management Cluster serves as a centralized and
secure control plane for the platform, facilitating the orchestration and
management of other components.

## Workload Cluster

In Holos, a Workload Cluster is a Kubernetes cluster designed to host and run
application workloads. Unlike the Management Cluster, which focuses on control
and secret management, Workload Clusters are dedicated to executing the actual
applications and services. These clusters can vary in size and configuration
based on the specific needs of the applications they support. Workload Clusters
leverage Kubernetes' orchestration capabilities to manage the deployment,
scaling, and operation of containerized applications, providing a flexible and
scalable environment for running production workloads within the platform.

## Platform Form

In Holos, a Platform Form is a customizable web form defined by JSON data. Each
platform within Holos has a unique Platform Form, which serves as an interface
for configuring and managing the platform's settings and resources. Platform
engineers can customize the Platform Form by modifying the underlying CUE
(Configuration Unified Engine) code, allowing for tailored configurations that
meet specific requirements. This flexibility enables platform engineers to
create a user-friendly and specific interface for managing the platform's
components and operations.

## Platform Model

In Holos, the Platform Model represents the collection of values submitted
through the Platform Form. It encapsulates the specific configuration details
and settings defined by the platform engineers, serving as the blueprint for the
platform's setup and operation. The Platform Model is essential for translating
the customized options and parameters from the Platform Form into actionable
configurations within the Holos ecosystem, ensuring that the platform operates
according to the specified requirements and guidelines.

## Secret Store

In Holos, a SecretStore is a repository for securely storing and managing
sensitive data such as passwords, API keys, and other confidential information.
It is compatible with any secret store supported by the External Secrets
Operator. By default, the management cluster serves as the SecretStore to
minimize dependencies and simplify the architecture. This setup ensures that
secrets are managed in a secure and centralized manner, aligning with the
overall security framework of the platform.

## Service Mesh

In Holos, a Service Mesh is a dedicated infrastructure layer for managing,
observing, and securing service-to-service communications within a microservices
architecture. It typically includes features such as load balancing, traffic
routing, service discovery, and security policies like mutual TLS and access
control. The Service Mesh abstracts these functionalities away from the
application code, providing a centralized control plane for managing the
interactions between microservices. This facilitates better observability,
resilience, and security in complex, distributed environments.

## Zero Trust

In the context of Holos and broader security practices, Zero Trust is a security
model that assumes no implicit trust is granted to any user, system, or
component inside or outside the network. Instead, every request for access is
treated as potentially malicious, and verification is required at every stage.
This model enforces strict identity verification, continuous monitoring, and
least-privilege access policies.
